<h1>Urbanisation-Risk Exposure nexus</h1>

<p align="justify">This repository includes the code for the analysis implemented in the Urbanistaion-Risk Exposure nexus, as part of the doctoral dissertation of Alexandre Pereira Santos at the University of Hamburg. The dissertation is available in <a href="https://ediss.sub.uni-hamburg.de/handle/ediss/10184">this link</a>.</p>
<p align="justify">Other publications of the dissertation are:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Santos, A. P., Rodriguez Lopez, J. M., Chiarel, C., & Scheffran, J. (2022). Unequal Landscapes: Vulnerability Traps in Informal Settlements of the Jacuí River Delta (Brazil). Urban Science, 6(4), 76. <a href="https://doi.org/10.3390/urbansci6040076"> https://doi.org/10.3390/urbansci6040076</a>.</li>
  <li>Santos, A. P., Rodriguez Lopez, J. M., Heider, K., Steinwärder, L., Scheffran, J., & Vargas, J. C. B. (2022). One year of the COVID-19 pandemic in the Global South: Uneven vulnerabilities in Brazilian cities. Erdkunde, 76(2), 75–91. <a href="https://doi.org/10.3112/erdkunde.2022.02.02">https://doi.org/10.3112/erdkunde.2022.02.02</a>.</li>
  <li>Peng, Y., Rodriguez Lopez, J. M., Santos, A. P., Mobeen, M., & Scheffran, J. (2023). Simulating exposure-related human mobility behavior at the neighborhood-level under COVID-19 in Porto Alegre, Brazil. Cities, 134(104161). <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cities.2022.104161">https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cities.2022.104161</a>.</li>
  <li>Santos, A. P., Pessoa Colombo, V., Heider, K., & Rodriguez-Lopez, J. M. (2023). Comparing Volunteered Data Acquisition Methods on Informal Settlements in Mexico City and São Paulo: A Citizen Participation Ladder for VGI. In S. Rodríguez López (Ed.), Interdisciplinarity, GIScience, and socio-environmental research in Latin America (pp. 255–280). Springer. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22680-9_12">https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22680-9_12</a>.</li>
</ol>
<h3> About the nexus</h3>

<p align="justify">Climate change and COVID-19 have been recognized as converging crises (Watts et al., 2021). Despite the marked differences in the temporal scale of these crises, both affect the health and well-being of citizens globally. The impacts these crises have are not evenly distributed, though. While some countries implemented adaptation and crisis management policies in a timely manner, thus preventing large numbers of fatalities from COVID-19, in others death rates were abnormally high, especially among vulnerable groups. In the latter group, common causes of fatalities include behavioural components, such as inaction from authorities and lack of adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions (e.g., social distancing), infrastructural components like limited healthcare provision capacity or accessibility, and lack of resistive capacity from certain population groups to the disease (Castro et al., 2021; Nicolelis et al., 2021).  On the one hand, behavioural components depend on political and ideological particularities. On the other hand, infrastructural and resistive capacity are connected to long-term social features, such as inequality and socioeconomic vulnerability (ECLAC, 2020; Lorenz et al., 2021) and therefore provide ample grounds for research from a Geographic perspective and their fight may present lessons for climate change adaptation (Fuentes et al., 2020; Ruiu, Ragnedda and Ruiu, 2020), especially around climate justice (Satterfield, Mertz and Slovic, 2004; Bolin and Kurtz, 2018). This line of enquiry also presents the potential to integrate global and local policy outcomes from the Sustainable Development Goals and New Urban Agenda (United Nations, 2016).<br>
Given the convergence of these crises, the unequal attribution of risks and response capacity, and the centrality of cities in the Anthropocene, this research seeks to unravel some of the connections between vulnerability (Pelling, 2003; Adger, 2006; Revi et al., 2015) and urban development (Batty, 2014; Paresi et al., 2016) in the Anthropocene (Crutzen, 2002; Gibbard et al., 2022). To this end, we propose a framework in which vulnerability (i.e., the degree to which a person or group is unable to avoid or absorb potential harm) bridges the urbanisation-risk exposure nexus, highlighting the connections between these domains in their social and environmental factors. In this context, this research asks: Which lessons can be learned from the COVID-19 pandemic that will improve climate change adaptation? More specifically, which urban populations are vulnerable to both the pandemic and climate change? Which are the factors that influence this vulnerability? The assumption is that socioeconomic vulnerability increased the risk of deaths from COVID-19 and will reflect in vulnerability to climate change.</p>
<br>
See more info at the <a href="https://twitter.com/covidgi">COVIDGI Project Twitter profile</a>

